# Advantages of blockchain

Blockchain is a distributed database that maintains an expandable ledger of data and records. This ledger is encrypted and protected from tampering, overhaul and deletion. The blocks that make up the blockchain, processed continuously over time, contain hashes that link and indicate important information in the database. The mix of transactions, blocks and decentralization of data in the ledger allows for great opportunities in several areas.

# Elimination of inter-change and lack of confidence

Two parties are able to make an exchange without the supervision or intermediation of a third party, greatly reducing or even eliminating counterparty risk.

 #   User Empowerment

Users are in control of all your information and transactions.

 #   High data quality

The blockchain data is complete, consistent, dated, accurate and widely available.

  #  Durability, reliability and longevity

Because networks are decentralized, the blockchain does not have a central point of failure and is more resistant to malicious attacks.

  #  Process Integrity

Users can trust that their transactions will be executed exactly as the protocol dictates, removing the need for a third party.

#    Transparency and immutability

Changes to public blockchains are publicly visible on all sides, creating transparency, and all transactions are immutable, that is, they can not be altered or deleted.

#    Ecosystem simplification

With all transactions being added to a single public ledger, this reduces the clutter and complications generated by multiple book-ratios.

 #   Faster transactions

Interbank transactions can potentially take days to be repaid and have final settlement, especially outside of work hours. Blockchain transactions can reduce transaction time to minutes and are processed 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

 #   Lowest cost per transaction

By eliminating third party intermediation and overhead for asset swaps, blockchains have the potential to significantly reduce transaction fees.

  #  Digital

Virtually any document or good can be expressed in code form and encapsulated or referenced by a ledger entry, which means that blockchain technology has very broad applications, most of which are still unthought, much less implemented.
